Upgrade Labs Documentation (#1136)
chef/chef-workstation: www/content/workstation/upgrade_labs.md

  product_version: 16  # Change this line
```

If needed, you can "step forward" by first going from 12 to 13, correcting issues, then 13 to 14, etc.

### Attempt a Converge and Check for Errors

Run, in the `node-MY_NODE-repo` directory:
```
$ chef exec kitchen converge
```
Watch for Chef Infra errors. If any occur, fix them.  Also consider running cookstyle (see below). Repeat as needed.

### Run CookStyle
To check for version upgrade issues, run:
```
$ chef exec cookstyle cookbooks/some-cookbook
```
Repeat this process for each cookbook that the node consumes.

## Correct any Cookbook Style Issues
### Using auto-correct
To auto-correct cookbook issues, run:
```
$ chef exec cookstyle -a cookbooks/some-cookbook
```
Other issues may require manual intervention and editing.
Repeat this process for each cookbook that the node consumes.

### Using the VSCode Plugin
While any editor can be used, the Chef Infra extension for Visual Studio Code features several code generators and helpful features, such as running cookstyle when recipes are saved.

### Check for Data Bags
If data bags are used, you will need a `data_bags` directory in your repo.
Pull down the data_bags by running:
```

> $ chef exec knife download data_bags

Reviewer: Needs --profile old-server flag

Reviewer: ^^ Didn't resolve issue.

```
 jobrien@joshs-mbp  ~/.chef  chef exec knife download data_bags
/opt/chef-workstation/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-15.10.12/lib/chef/resource.rb:1384: warning: Using the last argument as keyword parameters is deprecated; maybe ** should be added to the call
/opt/chef-workstation/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-15.10.12/lib/chef/node_map.rb:58: warning: The called method `set' is defined here
Created data_bags
WARN: Failed to read the private key /etc/chef/client.pem: #<Errno::EACCES: Permission denied @ rb_sysopen - /etc/chef/client.pem>
ERROR: Your private key could not be loaded from /etc/chef/client.pem
Check your configuration file and ensure that your private key is readable
 ✘ jobrien@joshs-mbp  ~/.chef  chef exec knife download data_bags --profile old-server
/opt/chef-workstation/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-15.10.12/lib/chef/resource.rb:1384: warning: Using the last argument as keyword parameters is deprecated; maybe ** should be added to the call
/opt/chef-workstation/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-15.10.12/lib/chef/node_map.rb:58: warning: The called method `set' is defined here
WARN: Failed to read the private key /etc/chef/client.pem: #<Errno::EACCES: Permission denied @ rb_sysopen - /etc/chef/client.pem>
ERROR: Your private key could not be loaded from /etc/chef/client.pem
Check your configuration file and ensure that your private key is readable
```

Author: Turned out the upload/download commands do not support keys embedded in credentials. I'm now shipping the extracted keys in the tarball and will update the onboarding doc.

```

### Check for Server Searches
Check your cookbook code for Chef Infra Server searches, which will not be possible in an Effortless context. Identify locations making search calls and replace with other mechanisms of service discovery.
```
$ grep 'search(' -rn cookbooks
```

### Commit Your Changes to the Cookbooks

> As you make changes to the cookbooks, follow normal SDLC practices by committing your changes to your cookbooks and submitting your changes to your cookbook pipeline to be tested by your automated testing system. Once the changes have passed testing, they cookbooks should receive new version numbers and be published to the new chef server by the continuous deployment system.

Reviewer: When we went to upload cookbooks, we hit this error

```
 jobrien@joshs-mbp  ~/.chef/node-node-01-repo   master  knife upload cookbooks
ERROR: Attempt to use relative path 'cookbooks' when current directory is outside the repository path.
ERROR: Current working directory is '/Users/jobrien/.chef/node-node-01-repo'.
 ✘ jobrien@joshs-mbp  ~/.chef/node-node-01-repo   master  knife upload cookbooks --profile new-server
ERROR: Attempt to use relative path 'cookbooks' when current directory is outside the repository path.
ERROR: Current working directory is '/Users/jobrien/.chef/node-node-01-repo'.
 ✘ jobrien@joshs-mbp  ~/.chef/node-node-01-repo   master  knife upload ~/.chef/node-node-01-repo/cookbooks --profile new-server
/opt/chef-workstation/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-15.10.12/lib/chef/resource.rb:1384: warning: Using the last argument as keyword parameters is deprecated; maybe ** should be added to the call
/opt/chef-workstation/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-15.10.12/lib/chef/node_map.rb:58: warning: The called method `set' is defined here
ERROR: Chef::ChefFS::FileSystem::OperationNotAllowedError: cannot have a child created under it
```

Author: Adding `--chef-repo-path .` fixed the path issue for me. I did not encounter the child creation issue, with invocation
```
chef exec knife upload cookbooks --profile new-server --chef-repo-path . --key ../keys/new-janedoe.pem
```

[menu]
  [menu.workstation]
    title = "Upgrade Lab: Chef Infra 12 to 16"
    identifier = "chef_workstation/upgrade_labs.md Upgrade Chef"
    parent = "chef_workstation"
    weight = 35
+++

Chef's Upgrade Lab provides an isolated cookbook development environment and in-line support to help you upgrade your system, so you can stop using legacy Chef Infra and start using modern Chef Infra.

The Upgrade Lab provides a report of your existing nodes and cookbooks, so you'll know the scope of the work and you can identify a good place to start. Upgrade Lab works by capturing any node from the production environment and recreating it locally by generating a repository for that node, which provides you with a sandbox to work through upgrading and testing your cookbooks at a safe distance from your production environment.

## About This Guide

This guide covers the straightforward pattern of upgrading from Chef Infra Client 12 to Chef Infra Client 16---including upgrading Chef Infra Server as you go. While we think this is the smoothest path forward, it is not meant to exclude other approaches.

Unless otherwise indicated, you'll run all commands in your local development environment.

> 

Author: I suggest we add something like the following near here:

```
{{{ note }}}
This guide illustrates the simple case of upgrading a single node in isolation, including migrating it from one Chef Infra Server to a new Chef Infra Server. More complex situations, such as those involving pooled nodes using Chef Infra Server search for peer discovery, are not covered here. Please contact [Chef Software customer support](https://www.chef.io/support/).
{{{ note }}}
```

## Chef Upgrade Lab Requirements

### System Architecture Requirements

> The Chef Lab makes some basic assumptions about your existing system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Chef Upgrade Lab makes some basic assumptions about your existing system:
```

> * Two Chef Servers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Two Chef Infra Servers
```

>   -  A Chef Server running some older version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  -  A Chef Infra Server running some older version
```

  -  A newly installed Chef Infra Server running the latest software, set up and configured for knife, but otherwise empty
* One or more nodes
  - Running Chef Infra Client 12-15
  - Minimum 512 MB RAM
  - [Recommended](https://docs.chef.io/chef_system_requirements/#chef-infra-client) 5GB space

>   - Bootstrapped to the older Chef Server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Bootstrapped to the older Chef Infra Server
```

  - `sudo` permissions on the node
  - SSH connectivity between the nodes and the administrator/developer workstation
* An administrator/developer workstation
  - 64-bit architecture
  - Minimum 4 GB RAM
  - Recommended 10 GB of available disk space for installing Chef Workstation and running the Chef Upgrade Lab

### Software Requirements

* Meet the [platform and system requirements](https://docs.chef.io/workstation/install_workstation/) for Chef Workstation

> * Install or upgrade to the Chef Workstation [latest verision](https://downloads.chef.io/chef-workstation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Install or upgrade to the Chef Workstation [latest version](https://downloads.chef.io/chef-workstation)
```

Reviewer 2: Additionally, this reads somewhat awkwardly. I might change it to something like:

```suggestion
* Install or upgrade to the [latest version of Chef Workstation](https://downloads.chef.io/chef-workstation)
```

> * Any [supported Ruby version](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/)

Author: Do we need to call out Ruby? We don't want people going out an installing Ruby after installing Workstation. The right Ruby is included with Workstation already.

Chef does not prescribe any specific editor. However, the [Chef Infra extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=chef-software.Chef) for [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) features several code generators and helpful features, such as running Cookstyle each time you save a recipe.

### Server Backup

We recommend performing a backup before starting any server upgrade process.
Follow the [Chef Infra Server Backup](https://docs.chef.io/runbook/server_backup_restore/) documentation before starting your Upgrade Lab.

> ### Chef Infrastructure Requirements

Reviewer 2: This could be kind of confusing given we're referring to the product `Chef Infra` elsewhere in this document.

```suggestion
### Infrastructure Requirements
```

maybe?

#### Credentials

Your credentials are set up using [knife profiles](https://docs.chef.io/workstation/knife_setup/#knife-profiles). This allows you to keep your keys in a `credentials` file, and makes switching between credentials easier.

For example, in `.chef/credentials`:

```toml
[old-server]

> client_name = "myuser"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
client_name = "user_name"
```

chef_server_url = "https://old-chef-server.dev/organizations/my-org"
client_key = """
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MMM+some+key+goes+here+MMM
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
"""
[new-server]

> client_name = "myuser"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
client_name = "user_name"
```

chef_server_url = "https://new-chef-server.dev/organizations/my-org"
client_key = """
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MMM+another+key+goes+here+MMM
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
"""
```

#### Connectivity

* You have a user key for both of the Chef Infra Servers
* You can connect to both Chef Infra Servers from your development workstation.

Verify connectivity by running a knife command against each server and receive a reasonable response:

```shell
chef exec knife user list --profile old-server my-user

> chef exec knife user list --profile new-server my-user

Author: Both commands here should have the `my-user` portion on the next line - it is example output

```

#### Convergence

Your nodes are in a good working order. They converge cleanly under the older version of Chef Infra Client.

Verify that the nodes are healthy by running:

```shell
chef exec knife status --profile old-server
```

Which outputs something similar to:

```output
42 minutes ago, node-01, ubuntu 18.04.
```

This command outputs the time of the last successful chef run of each node; nodes that return radically different times for the last successful chef run are not in good working order.

#### Cookbook CI/CD

While we don't prescribe a particular choice of technology or the details of processes, the Chef Upgrade Lab expects a continuous integration pipeline and continuous delivery system (CI/CD) for cookbook deployments.

The Upgrade Lab assumes--but does not require--that you have a continuous integration pipeline (CI) setup for your cookbooks with:

  * A version control system (for example, git)
  * Some degree of automated testing for proposed changes

>   * A continuous delivery system (CD) that controls cookbook releases; the CD is the mechanism for updating cookbook versions and uploading them to the Chef Server(s)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * A continuous delivery system (CD) that controls cookbook releases; the CD is the mechanism for updating cookbook versions and uploading them to the Chef Infra Server(s)
```

If you do not have a version control system and CI/CD pipeline in place, then please contact [Chef Software customer support](https://www.chef.io/support/).

> #### Cookbook Locations

Author: I think this section should come later. We're telling people to go searching for cookbooks, but they don't know which cookbooks to search for, because they have not run the report yet. In fact, `capture` interactively tells you exactly which cookbooks it needs to locate.

> Upgrading a node means upgrading its cookbooks.

Author: " so that it can run the latest version of Chef Infra Client."

The point of the upgrade is the run the latest version of Chef Infra. The major obstacle is outdated cookbooks.

Speed up the upgrade process by locating cookbooks on your system before you begin.

> Ideally, you can get the cookbooks from their canonical source (that is, `git clone` or another similar version control operation). If you're working with a version control system, you can make and test your changes locally and then push the changes back to the cookbook's source.

Author: might add "This fully leverages the benefits of your cookbook CI/CD pipeline by allowing your changes to go through proper version control, peer review, automated testing, and automated deployment."

Likely cookbook locations:

* Checked into your version control system
* On a private Supermarket installation
* In an existing [cookbook development directory](/upgrade_labs/#expected-cookbook-directory-layout)

##### Cookbook Directory Layout

If you have access to cookbook sources, it is simplest if you have the cookbooks stored in one parent directory, similar to this:

```
/Users/user_name/my_cookbooks/
  ├── cron
  │   ├── .git/   # Or other version control bookkeeping
  │   ├── recipes/
  │   ├──...
  │   └── metadata.rb
  └── chef-client
  │   ├── .cvs/   # Or other version control bookkeeping
  │   ├── recipes/
  │   ├──...
  │   └── metadata.rb
  └── my_custom_cookbook
      ├── .git/   # Or other version control bookkeeping
      ├── recipes/
      ├──...
      └── metadata.rb
```

The Upgrade Lab works if you have cookbooks in different locations, but it involves more prompting from the command line.

## Upgrade Lab

### Inventory your system with Chef Reports

> We recommend starting the upgrade process on a node with a simpler a simple setup, such as one with fewer and simpler cookbooks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend starting the upgrade process on a node with a simple setup, such as one with fewer and simpler cookbooks.
```

> The `chef report` commands make a survey your nodes and cookbooks. Use the reports to identify a good starting place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `chef report` command surveys your nodes and cookbooks. Use the reports to identify a good starting place.
```

#### chef report nodes

> Use `chef report nodes SERVER` command to create a report of the nodes in your system from Ohai data. The command:

Author: It's `chef report nodes -p PROFILE` - the profile is one of your profiles in your credentials file.

* Prints a report summary to the screen
* Saves the report to the `.chef-workstation/reports/` directory.

Create a node report from your development workstation by running:

```shell
chef report nodes -p old-server
```

Which outputs a node report:

```output
Analyzing nodes...

-- REPORT SUMMARY --

            Node Name             Chef Version    Operating System     Number Cookbooks
--------------------------------+--------------+---------------------+-------------------
  node-01                         12.22.5        windows v10.0.14393                 18
  node-02                         12.22.5        windows v10.0.14393                 18
  node-03                         12.22.5        windows v10.0.14393                  5
  node-04                         12.18.31       windows v6.3.9600                    5
Nodes report saved to /Users/user_name/.chef-workstation/reports/nodes-20200324135111.txt
```

#### chef report cookbooks

> Use `chef report cookbooks SERVER` command to create a report of the cookbooks in your system from Ohai data. The command:

Author: `chef report cookbooks -p PROFILE` - PROFILE is the name of a profile in the credentials file

```
Checkout Location [none]: /src/my_cookbooks
  Replacing cookbook: cron
  Replacing cookbook: chef-client
```

##### Alternate Cookbook Source Locations

Suppose that your node requires 5 cookbooks:

  - cron (v1.6.1)
  - chef-client (v4.3.0)
  - logrotate (v1.9.2)
  - windows (v1.44.1)
  - chef_handler (v1.4.0)

If the directory you provided in the initial prompt contains only `cron` and `chef-client`, then `chef capture` prompts you to add the locations for sources for the remaining three:

```
Please provide the base checkout path for the following
cookbooks, or leave blank if no more cookbooks are checked out:

  - logrotate (v1.9.2)
  - windows (v1.44.1)
  - chef_handler (v1.4.0)

Checkout Location [none]:
```

`chef capture` scans the path that you provide and locates the cookbooks that it needs. The command finishes once it accounts for all cookbook sources; it prompts you for another path if it needs more cookbook sources.

### Download Cookbooks from Chef Infra Server

If you do not have access to the original version-controlled source of a cookbook, press return at the prompt for `chef capture`  to use a copy of the cookbook downloaded from the Chef Infra Server.

> Upgrading cookbooks from the Chef Infra Server is not an ideal practice. You will make changes to your cookbooks in the course of the upgrade.  Making changes to your cookbooks without the ability to track your changes in version control almost inevitably leads to conflicts between cookbook sources. Reconciling cookbooks with untracked changes is a difficult and time-consuming process. If you find yourself using many cookbooks--or complex cookbooks--downloaded from the Chef Server, it will be worth the effort in the long run to try to track down their version-controlled sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upgrading cookbooks from the Chef Infra Server is not an ideal practice. You will make changes to your cookbooks in the course of the upgrade.  Making changes to your cookbooks without the ability to track your changes in version control almost inevitably leads to conflicts between cookbook sources. Reconciling cookbooks with untracked changes is a difficult and time-consuming process. If you find yourself using many cookbooks--or complex cookbooks--downloaded from the Chef Infra Server, it will be worth the effort in the long run to try to track down their version-controlled sources.
```

Reviewer 4: What if we went for shorter, so,something like:

Reviewer 4: If this is in a warning box, what if we went for something short that linked to more details in a practices doc/blog/etc? 

```
Do not re-upload modified cookbooks directly to the Chef Infra Server - it is important that you 
follow your organization's normal cookbook development and release practices. For more 
information about the pitfalls of attempting to upload cookbooks directly to Chef Server without 
benefit of source control, please visit [....]. 
```

> Tracking and testing changes in a CI/CD pipeline is an important part of managing your Chef infrastructure. CI/CD pipelines and test-driven development (TDD) which are beyond the scope of this guide, see [Learn Chef Rally](https://learn.chef.io/) for tutorials and contact [Chef Software customer support](https://www.chef.io/support/) when you are ready to modernize your system.

Reviewer 2: This sentence reads awkwardly. Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
Tracking and testing changes in a CI/CD pipeline is an important part of managing your Chef infrastructure but are beyond the scope of this guide. See [Learn Chef Rally](https://learn.chef.io/) for tutorials and contact [Chef Software customer support](https://www.chef.io/support/) when you are ready to modernize your system.
```

{{< /note >}}

### Increment the Chef Infra Client Version

In the `kitchen.yml` file, change the `product_version` line to `16`:

```yaml
provisioner:
  name: chef_zero
  product_name: chef
  product_version: 16  # Change this line
```

If needed, you can "step forward" by first going from 12 to 13, correcting issues, then 13 to 14, etc.

### Attempt a Converge and Check for Errors

Save the file and test it in the `node-MY_NODE-repo` directory by running:

```
chef exec kitchen converge
```

Watch for Chef Infra errors. If any occur, fix them.

### Test and Correct with Cookstyle

To check for version upgrade issues, run:

```
$ chef exec cookstyle cookbooks/my_cookbook
```

Repeat this process for each cookbook for that node.

#### Using Cookstyle Auto-correct

Use Cookstyle's auto-correct feature to fix style errors by adding the `-a` (for auto-correct) flag:

```
$ chef exec cookstyle -a cookbooks/my_cookbook
```

Other issues may require manual intervention and editing.
Repeat this process for each cookbook that the node consumes.

### Copy Data Bags

> If data bags are used on your Chef Infra Server, you will need to download the data_bags directory `data_bags` directory in your repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If data bags are used on your Chef Infra Server, you will need to download the `data_bags` directory in your repository.
```

Note that this command does not support embedded keys in credentials files. If you use embedded keys, move the key to a key file.

```
cd node-node-01-repo
chef exec knife download data_bags --chef-repo-path . --profile old-server --key my-old-key.pem
```

### Remove Server Searches

Check your cookbook code for Chef Infra Server searches, which will not be possible in an Effortless context. Identify locations making search calls and replace with other mechanisms of service discovery.

```
$ grep 'search(' -rn cookbooks

> ```

Author: This section can be removed.

## Deploy your Chef Lab Upgrades

### Commit Your Cookbook Upgrades

> As you make changes to the cookbooks, follow normal SDLC practices by committing your changes to your cookbooks and submitting your changes to your cookbook pipeline to be tested by your automated testing system. Once the changes have passed testing, the cookbooks should receive new version numbers and be published to the new Chef Infra Server by the continuous deployment system.

Reviewer 2: What does `SDLC` stand for?

Author: Software Development LifeCycle. No neeed to introduce a new term, though. How about "...follow your organization's existing software development practices by committing ..."

Reviewer 2: 👍

+++

> title = "Upgrade Lab: Chef Infra 12 to 16"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title = "Upgrade Lab: Chef Infra Client 12 to 16"
```

draft = false

aliases = ["/upgrade_labs.html", "/upgrade_labs.html", "/upgrade_labs/", "/upgrade_labs/"]

[menu]
  [menu.workstation]
    title = "Upgrade Lab: Chef Infra 12 to 16"
    identifier = "chef_workstation/upgrade_labs.md Upgrade Chef"
    parent = "chef_workstation"
    weight = 35
+++

> Chef's Upgrade Lab provides an isolated cookbook development environment and in-line support to help you upgrade your system, so you can stop using legacy Chef and start using modern Chef.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Chef's Upgrade Lab provides an isolated cookbook development environment and in-line support to help you upgrade your system, so you can stop using legacy Chef Infra and start using modern Chef Infra.
```

## Chef Upgrade Lab Requirements

### System Architecture Requirements

The Chef Lab makes some basic assumptions about your existing system:

* Two Chef Servers
  -  A Chef Server running some older version
  -  A newly installed Chef Infra Server running the latest software, set up and configured for knife, but otherwise empty
* One or more nodes
  - Running Chef Infra Client 12-15
  - Minimum 512 MB RAM
  - [Recommended](https://docs.chef.io/chef_system_requirements/#chef-infra-client) 5GB space
  - Bootstrapped to the older Chef Server
  - `sudo` permissions on the node
  - SSH connectivity between the nodes and the administrator/developer workstation
* An administrator/developer workstation
  - 64-bit architecture
  - Minimum 4 GB RAM
  - Recommended 10 GB of available disk space for installing Chef Workstation and running the Chef Upgrade Lab

### Software Requirements

* Meet the [platform and system requirements](https://docs.chef.io/workstation/install_workstation/) for Chef Workstation
* Install or upgrade to the Chef Workstation [latest verision](https://downloads.chef.io/chef-workstation)
* Any [supported Ruby version](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/)

> Chef does not prescribe any specific editor. However, the [Chef Infra extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=chef-software.Chef) for [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) features several code generators and helpful features, such as running Cookstyle each time you save a recipe.

Reviewer 3: Given out extension I'd say we do prescribe users install vscode.

Reviewer 5: We recommend it, but there's nothing preventing a user with Vim from completing the Upgrade Lab.

### Server Backup

We recommend performing a backup before starting any server upgrade process.
Follow the [Chef Infra Server Backup](https://docs.chef.io/runbook/server_backup_restore/) documentation before starting your Upgrade Lab.

### Chef Infrastructure Requirements

#### Credentials

Your credentials are set up using [knife profiles](https://docs.chef.io/workstation/knife_setup/#knife-profiles). This allows you to keep your keys in a `credentials` file, and makes switching between credentials easier.

For example, in `.chef/credentials`:

```toml
[old-server]
client_name = "myuser"
chef_server_url = "https://old-chef-server.dev/organizations/my-org"
client_key = """
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MMM+some+key+goes+here+MMM
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
"""
[new-server]
client_name = "myuser"
chef_server_url = "https://new-chef-server.dev/organizations/my-org"
client_key = """
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MMM+another+key+goes+here+MMM
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
"""
```

#### Connectivity

> * You have a user key for both of the Chef Servers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You have a user key for both of the Chef Infra Servers
```

Reviewer 5: Yah, I'm going to let @mjingle find all these.

> * You can connect to both Chef Servers from your development workstation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can connect to both Chef Infra Servers from your development workstation.
```

The Upgrade Lab assumes--but does not require--that you have a continuous integration pipeline (CI) setup for your cookbooks with:

  * A version control system (for example, git)
  * Some degree of automated testing for proposed changes
  * A continuous delivery system (CD) that controls cookbook releases; the CD is the mechanism for updating cookbook versions and uploading them to the Chef Server(s)

If you do not have a version control system and CI/CD pipeline in place, then please contact [Chef Software customer support](https://www.chef.io/support/).

#### Cookbook Locations

Upgrading a node means upgrading its cookbooks.
Speed up the upgrade process by locating cookbooks on your system before you begin.
Ideally, you can get the cookbooks from their canonical source (that is, `git clone` or another similar version control operation). If you're working with a version control system, you can make and test your changes locally and then push the changes back to the cookbook's source.

> If you can't locate a cookbook, do not download it from an external source, such as the public Chef Supermarket. The cookbook version in your development environment must match the version on your node. [As a last resort](/upgrade_labs/#cookbooks-on-the-chef-server), the Upgrade Lab can get copies of your cookbooks from the Chef Server during the `capture` phase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you can't locate a cookbook, do not download it from an external source, such as the public Chef Supermarket. The cookbook version in your development environment must match the version on your node. [As a last resort](/upgrade_labs/#cookbooks-on-the-chef-server), the Upgrade Lab can get copies of your cookbooks from the Chef Infra Server during the `capture` phase.
```

* Prints a report summary to the screen
* Saves the report to the `.chef-workstation/reports/` directory.

Create a node report from your development workstation by running:

```shell
chef report nodes -p old-server
```

Which outputs a node report:

```output
Analyzing nodes...

-- REPORT SUMMARY --

            Node Name             Chef Version    Operating System     Number Cookbooks
--------------------------------+--------------+---------------------+-------------------
  node-01                         12.22.5        windows v10.0.14393                 18
  node-02                         12.22.5        windows v10.0.14393                 18
  node-03                         12.22.5        windows v10.0.14393                  5
  node-04                         12.18.31       windows v6.3.9600                    5
Nodes report saved to /Users/user_name/.chef-workstation/reports/nodes-20200324135111.txt
```

#### chef report cookbooks

Use `chef report cookbooks SERVER` command to create a report of the cookbooks in your system from Ohai data. The command:

* Prints a report summary to the screen
* Saves the report to the `.chef-workstation/reports/` directory.

> This report shows that there are two cookbooks on the server. It analyzes the cookbooks, looking for cookbook issues that with will be problematic in later versions of the Chef Infra client by running the `cookstyle` program. Here, we see that the `cron` cookbook has a single violation, and which can be auto-corrected by `cookstyle`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This report shows that there are two cookbooks on the server. It analyzes the cookbooks, looking for cookbook issues that will be problematic in later versions of the Chef Infra Client by running the `cookstyle` program. Here, we see that the `cron` cookbook has a single violation, and which can be auto-corrected by `cookstyle`.
```

Create a cookbook report from your development workstation by running:

```
chef analyze report cookbooks -V -p old-server
```

Which outputs a cookbook report:

```
        Cookbook         Version   Violations   Auto-correctable   Nodes Affected
-----------------------+---------+------------+------------------+-----------------
  cron                   1.7.5              1                  1                1
  upgrade_labs_problems   0.1.0              2                  2                1

Cookbooks report saved to /Users/user_name/.chef-workstation/reports/cookbooks-20200504155204.txt
```

### Create an Upgrade Environment with chef capture

`chef capture NODE`

* Creates a repository for that node in the current directory
* Helps you obtain and organize the cookbooks you need to converge the node

> * Makes a `Kitchenfile`, which allows you to use Test Kitchen to perform local development

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Creates a `kitchen.yml`, which allows you to use Test Kitchen to perform local development
```

`chef capture` scans that path and locates the cookbooks that it needs. The command finishes once it accounts for all cookbook sources; but if any are missing, it will prompt for them in the next step.

```
Checkout Location [none]: /src/my_cookbooks
  Replacing cookbook: cron
  Replacing cookbook: chef-client
```

##### Alternate Cookbook Source Locations

Suppose that your node requires 5 cookbooks:

  - cron (v1.6.1)
  - chef-client (v4.3.0)
  - logrotate (v1.9.2)
  - windows (v1.44.1)
  - chef_handler (v1.4.0)

If the directory you provided in the initial prompt contains only `cron` and `chef-client`, then `chef capture` prompts you to add the locations for sources for the remaining three:

```
Please provide the base checkout path for the following
cookbooks, or leave blank if no more cookbooks are checked out:

  - logrotate (v1.9.2)
  - windows (v1.44.1)
  - chef_handler (v1.4.0)

Checkout Location [none]:
```

`chef capture` scans the path that you provide and locates the cookbooks that it needs. The command finishes once it accounts for all cookbook sources; it prompts you for another path if it needs more cookbook sources.

> ### Download Cookbooks from Chef Server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Download Cookbooks from Chef Infra Server
```

> If you do not have access to the original version-controlled source of a cookbook, press return at the prompt for `chef capture`  to use a copy of the cookbook downloaded from the Chef Server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you do not have access to the original version-controlled source of a cookbook, press return at the prompt for `chef capture`  to use a copy of the cookbook downloaded from the Chef Infra Server.
```

> Upgrading cookbooks from the Chef Server is not an ideal practice. You will make changes to your cookbooks in the course of the upgrade.  Making changes to your cookbooks without the ability to track your changes in version control almost inevitably leads to conflicts between cookbook sources. Reconciling cookbooks with untracked changes is a difficult and time-consuming process. If you find yourself using many cookbooks--or complex cookbooks--downloaded from the Chef Server, it will be worth the effort in the long run to try to track down their version-controlled sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upgrading cookbooks from the Chef Infra Server is not an ideal practice. You will make changes to your cookbooks in the course of the upgrade.  Making changes to your cookbooks without the ability to track your changes in version control almost inevitably leads to conflicts between cookbook sources. Reconciling cookbooks with untracked changes is a difficult and time-consuming process. If you find yourself using many cookbooks--or complex cookbooks--downloaded from the Chef Server, it will be worth the effort in the long run to try to track down their version-controlled sources.
```

{{< /note >}}

### Increment the Chef Infra Client Version

In the `kitchen.yml` file, change the `product_version` line to `16`:

```yaml
provisioner:
  name: chef_zero
  product_name: chef
  product_version: 16  # Change this line
```

If needed, you can "step forward" by first going from 12 to 13, correcting issues, then 13 to 14, etc.

### Attempt a Converge and Check for Errors

Save the file and test it in the `node-MY_NODE-repo` directory by running:

```
chef exec kitchen converge
```

Watch for Chef Infra errors. If any occur, fix them.

### Test and Correct with Cookstyle

To check for version upgrade issues, run:

```
$ chef exec cookstyle cookbooks/my_cookbook
```

Repeat this process for each cookbook for that node.

#### Using Cookstyle Auto-correct

Use Cookstyle's auto-correct feature to fix style errors by adding the `-a` (for auto-correct) flag:

```
$ chef exec cookstyle -a cookbooks/my_cookbook
```

Other issues may require manual intervention and editing.
Repeat this process for each cookbook that the node consumes.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### Copy Data Bags

> If data bags are used on your Chef Server, you will need to to download the data_bags directory `data_bags` directory in your repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If data bags are used on your Chef Infra Server, you will need to download the data_bags directory `data_bags` directory in your repository.
```

Note that this command does not support embedded keys in credentials files. If you use embedded keys, move the key to a key file.

```
cd node-node-01-repo
chef exec knife download data_bags --chef-repo-path . --profile old-server --key my-old-key.pem
```

### Remove Server Searches

> 

Reviewer 3: We need to be much more up front with users about the danger of moving nodes this way. It's very common for users to populate configs using search data. Moving a node to a new server will wipe out those configs and has a high likelihood to cause production outages.

Author: I've added some suggested warning verbiage in a comment in the About this Guide section.

Check your cookbook code for Chef Infra Server searches, which will not be possible in an Effortless context. Identify locations making search calls and replace with other mechanisms of service discovery.

```

> $ grep 'search(' -rn cookbooks

Reviewer 3: Instead of having users grep codebases we should have them run the built-in cookstyle rules for Effortless, which are disabled by default, but can be enabled on the CLI. There's much more than search.

Author: This is cruft, anyway; this doc started as a migration to Effortless and morphed into a 12 -> 16 upgrade guide. There is no need to recommend removing searches, at least not motivated by going to Effortless.

```

## Deploy your Chef Lab Upgrades

### Commit Your Cookbook Upgrades

> As you make changes to the cookbooks, follow normal SDLC practices by committing your changes to your cookbooks and submitting your changes to your cookbook pipeline to be tested by your automated testing system. Once the changes have passed testing, the cookbooks should receive new version numbers and be published to the new chef server by the continuous deployment system.

Reviewer 3: SDLC is developer jargon that we should avoid

> As you make changes to the cookbooks, follow normal SDLC practices by committing your changes to your cookbooks and submitting your changes to your cookbook pipeline to be tested by your automated testing system. Once the changes have passed testing, the cookbooks should receive new version numbers and be published to the new chef server by the continuous deployment system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As you make changes to the cookbooks, follow normal SDLC practices by committing your changes to your cookbooks and submitting your changes to your cookbook pipeline to be tested by your automated testing system. Once the changes have passed testing, the cookbooks should receive new version numbers and be published to the new Chef Infra Server by the continuous deployment system.
```

```
cd node-node-01-repo
chef exec knife download data_bags --chef-repo-path . --profile old-server --key my-old-key.pem
```

## Deploy your Chef Lab Upgrades

### Commit Your Cookbook Upgrades

As you make changes to the cookbooks, follow your organization's existing software development practices by committing your changes to your cookbooks and submitting your changes to your cookbook pipeline to be tested by your automated testing system. Once the changes have passed testing, the cookbooks should receive new version numbers and be published to the new Chef Infra Server by the continuous deployment system.

### Upload your Cookbook Upgrades to the New Server

If your organization does not have a cookbook pipeline in place, or if you are setting up a proof of concept, you can directly upload the cookbooks to the new server. This is not recommended because it makes it difficult to manage changes to cookbook code. Note that this command does not support embedded keys in credentials files, so you must place the key in a key file.

```
$ cd node-node-01-repo
$ chef exec knife upload cookbooks --chef-repo-path . --profile new-server --key ../keys/my-new-key.pem
```

> 

Reviewer 4: I think we'll also need to upload any environment, roles, etc - if the node will look the same on the new server, it will have all the same deps. 

What if we had them: 
`chef exec knife upload . `?

Author: `knife upload .` would upload the cookbooks, which we don't want them to do. I'll call out each type.

If you used data bags, also upload them to the new server:

```
$ chef exec knife upload data_bags --chef-repo-path . --profile new-server --key ../keys/my-new-key.pem
```

## Attach the Upgraded Node to the New Server

> 

Author: Consider repeating warning about node search and migrating nodes

If you do not have access to the original version-controlled source of a cookbook, press return at the prompt for `chef capture`  to use a copy of the cookbook downloaded from the Chef Infra Server.

Upgrading cookbooks from the Chef Infra Server is not an ideal practice. You will make changes to your cookbooks in the course of the upgrade.  Making changes to your cookbooks without the ability to track your changes in version control almost inevitably leads to conflicts between cookbook sources. Reconciling cookbooks with untracked changes is a difficult and time-consuming process. If you find yourself using many cookbooks--or complex cookbooks--downloaded from the Chef Infra Server, it will be worth the effort in the long run to try to track down their version-controlled sources.

Tracking and testing changes in a CI/CD pipeline is an important part of managing your Chef infrastructure but are beyond the scope of this guide. See [Learn Chef Rally](https://learn.chef.io/) for tutorials and contact [Chef Software customer support](https://www.chef.io/support/) when you are ready to modernize your system.

```
------------------------ WARNING ---------------------------

> Changes made to the following cookbooks in ./node-MYNODE-repo/cookbooks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changes made to the following cookbooks in ./node-MY_NODE-repo/cookbooks
```

### Attempt a Converge and Check for Errors

Save the file and test it in the `node-MY_NODE-repo` directory by running:

```
chef exec kitchen converge
```

Watch for Chef Infra errors. If any occur, fix them.

### Test and Correct with Cookstyle

To check for version upgrade issues, run:

```
$ chef exec cookstyle cookbooks/my_cookbook
```

Repeat this process for each cookbook for that node.

#### Using Cookstyle Auto-correct

Use Cookstyle's auto-correct feature to fix style errors by adding the `-a` (for auto-correct) flag:

```
$ chef exec cookstyle -a cookbooks/my_cookbook
```

Other issues may require manual intervention and editing.
Repeat this process for each cookbook that the node consumes.

### Copy Data Bags

If data bags are used on your Chef Infra Server, you will need to download the `data_bags` directory in your repository.
Note that this command does not support embedded keys in credentials files. If you use embedded keys, move the key to a key file.

```
cd node-node-01-repo
chef exec knife download data_bags --chef-repo-path . --profile old-server --key my-old-key.pem
```

## Deploy your Chef Lab Upgrades

{{< note >}}

> This guide suggests migrating upgraded cookbooks and nodes to a new Chef Server. This pattern is not feasable for all customers, specifically ones who rely on Chef search for inventory and coordination. But we feel migrating to a new server works for customers who do not rely on search because it creates a fresh start to build on for future migration to Effortless.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide suggests migrating upgraded cookbooks and nodes to a new Chef Server. This pattern is not feasible for all customers, specifically ones who rely on Chef search for inventory and coordination. But we feel migrating to a new server works for customers who do not rely on search because it creates a fresh start to build on for future migration to Effortless.
```

Reviewer 5: What prevents the migration to a newer server? Is it a question of the Chef Infra Server version or of existing search indexes?

Reviewer 5: How about:
```
This guide advises migrating upgraded cookbooks and nodes to a new Chef Infra Server. Migrating to a new Chef Infra Server is generally a good solution for most customers because it creates a fresh start to build on for future migration to Effortless. However, we specifically advise _against_ upgrading the Chef Infra Server if your organization relies on Chef search for inventory and coordination. 
```

> If you rely on knife search, or setting up a new Chef Server is unfeasable, upload the upgraded cookbooks to your existing Chef Server. If you do this be sure to pin your cookbook versions on existing nodes, so that the upgraded cookbook can be manually promoted to desired nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you rely on knife search, or setting up a new Chef Server is unfeasible, upload the upgraded cookbooks to your existing Chef Server. If you do this be sure to pin your cookbook versions on existing nodes, so that the upgraded cookbook can be manually promoted to desired nodes.
```

### Upload your Cookbook Upgrades to the New Server

If your organization does not have a cookbook pipeline in place, or if you are setting up a proof of concept, you can directly upload the cookbooks to the new server. This is not recommended because it makes it difficult to manage changes to cookbook code. Note that this command does not support embedded keys in credentials files, so you must place the key in a key file.

```
$ cd node-node-01-repo
$ chef exec knife upload cookbooks --chef-repo-path . --profile new-server --key ../keys/my-new-key.pem
```

If you used data bags, also upload them to the new server:

```
$ chef exec knife upload data_bags --chef-repo-path . --profile new-server --key ../keys/my-new-key.pem
```

## Attach the Upgraded Node to the New Server

### Issue a new Bootstrap Command

Migrate your node to the new server by running a bootstrap command similar to the following:

```
 $ chef exec knife bootstrap \
      --profile new-server --chef-license accept \
      -r cookbook::recipe,another_cookbook::recipe \
      -N node-01 -y --sudo \
      --bootstrap-version 16 \
      user@somehost.example
```

> Bootstraping nodes in this way upgrades the the installed Chef Infra Client to version 16. Congratulations!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bootstrapping nodes in this way upgrades the the installed Chef Infra Client to version 16. Congratulations!
```

+++
title = "Upgrade Lab: Chef Infra Client 12 to 16"
draft = false

> aliases = ["/upgrade_labs.html", "/upgrade_labs.html", "/upgrade_labs/", "/upgrade_labs/"]

Reviewer 6: All that can get yanked.
```suggestion
```

```toml
[old-server]
client_name = "user_name"
chef_server_url = "https://old-chef-server.dev/organizations/my-org"
client_key = """
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MMM+some+key+goes+here+MMM
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
"""
[new-server]
client_name = "user_name"
chef_server_url = "https://new-chef-server.dev/organizations/my-org"
client_key = """
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MMM+another+key+goes+here+MMM
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
"""
```

#### Connectivity

You must have a user key for both of the Chef Infra Servers and you must be able
to connect to both Chef Infra Servers from your development workstation.

Verify connectivity by running a knife command and receiving a reasonable
response from each server:

```shell
chef exec knife user list --profile old-server
user_name
chef exec knife user list --profile new-server
user_name
```

#### Convergence

Your nodes are in a good working order. They converge cleanly under the older version of Chef Infra Client.

Verify that the nodes are healthy by running:

```shell
chef exec knife status --profile old-server
```

Which outputs something similar to:

```output
42 minutes ago, node-01, ubuntu 18.04.
```

> This command outputs the time of the last successful chef run of each node; nodes that return radically different times for the last successful chef run are not in good working order.

Reviewer 7: Is this "chef run" supposed to be a "Chef Infra Client run"?

Reviewer 5: ok
